# Installed Things

Most of these I won't document directly, as they come with their own help
systems. For `brew` formulae, use `brew help` and `man`. For `vim` plugins, use
`:help <plugin>`. For other stuff, well, good luck and RTFM.

## Brew Formulae and Cask Apps

For a complete listing, see [brewlist](/brew/brewlist) which is generated by
[brew dump](/brew/ext/brew-dump).

A few formulae are installed as part of
[install-brew](/installers/install-brew.sh), such as Mactex, Vim, Git, Bash 4.0,
Archey, SML/NJ, nethack, python, python3, tree, GNU stuff, cowsay, fortune,
ponysay, lolcat, and figlet. This is clearly not a comprehensive list, and
doesn't document their dependencies. This also assumes you say 'yes' ('y') to
all the prompts.

Basically, I got tired of constantly updating the potentially error-prone
install script for brew, and stopped. If you want to install everything I have
from brew, use the list linked to above.

I plan to switch over to `brew bundle` to make this part much easier. Stay
tuned.

## Vim Plugins

Honestly, just see [tree](/docs/tree.md) and look under `vim/bundle`, since I
use tpope's [pathogen](https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen).

Quick list:

- Airline
  - Airline themes
- Commentary
- Markology
- Fugitive
- Invader
- Pathogen
- Surround
- Syntastic
- Undotree
- Winresizer

If you want links to the github repos that contain these plugins, you can check
out [gitmodules](/.gitmodules).

## Other

The other things installed currently are some little git extras. This used to
include git prompt and completion, but these are now included using the `brew`
git.

[Hooks](/hooks) are symlinked in to the project's .git/hooks directory as part
of this step. These hooks are the things responsible for keeping
[tree](/docs/tree.md) and [brewlist](/brew/brewlist) up-to-date so I don't have
to do it manually.
